terms/decentralization.md, before:

---
cover: >-
  https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1597733336794-12d05021d510?crop=entropy&cs=tinysrgb&fm=jpg&ixid=MnwxOTcwMjR8MHwxfHNlYXJjaHwyfHxuZXR3b3JrfGVufDB8fHx8MTY1OTkxMjU3Nw&ixlib=rb-1.2.1&q=80
coverY: 0
---

# Decentralization

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/7w_5BQXYJfI" %}

## ABC of Governance - Decentralisation

\- ABC of Governance - Decentralisation - [00:00](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7w\_5BQXYJfI\&t=0s)&#x20;

## Alexis De Tocqueville on Decentralisation

\- Alexis De Tocqueville on Decentralisation - [00:06](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7w\_5BQXYJfI\&t=6s)&#x20;

## Types of Blockchain Networks

\- Types of Blockchain Networks - [00:45](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7w\_5BQXYJfI\&t=45s)&#x20;

## Buterin, "The Meaning of Decentralisation"

\- Vitalik Buterin, "The Meaning of Decentralisation" - [01:03](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7w\_5BQXYJfI\&t=63s)&#x20;

### Architectural decentralisation

\- Architectural decentralisation - [01:13](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7w\_5BQXYJfI\&t=73s)&#x20;

### Political decentralisation

\- Political decentralisation - [01:26](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7w\_5BQXYJfI\&t=86s)&#x20;

### Logical decentralisation

\- Logical decentralisation - [01:36](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7w\_5BQXYJfI\&t=96s)&#x20;

## Decomposition

\- Decomposition - [01:47](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7w\_5BQXYJfI\&t=107s)&#x20;

## Blockchains - 3 Types of decentralisation

\- Blockchains - 3 Types of decentralisation - [01:59](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7w\_5BQXYJfI\&t=119s)&#x20;

## How can decentralisation be measured ?

\- How can decentralisation be measured ? - [02:19](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7w\_5BQXYJfI\&t=139s)&#x20;

## Edinburgh Decentralisation Index

\- Edinburgh Decentralisation Index - [02:21](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7w\_5BQXYJfI\&t=141s)&#x20;

### &#x20;EDI Decentralisation Layers 1 to 4

\- EDI Decentralisation Layers 1 to 4 - [02:37](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7w\_5BQXYJfI\&t=157s)&#x20;

### EDI Decentralisation Layers 5 to 8&#x20;

\- EDI Decentralisation Layers 5 to 8 - [03:11](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7w\_5BQXYJfI\&t=191s)&#x20;

## Decentralisation Pros & Cons

\- Decentralisation Pros & Cons - [03:46](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7w\_5BQXYJfI\&t=226s)&#x20;

## End

\- How can we overcome these challenges and build a decentralised future? - [04:57](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7w\_5BQXYJfI\&t=297s)&#x20;

\- QA-DAO - [05:02](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7w\_5BQXYJfI\&t=302s)

Commit message:

GITBOOK-175: change request with no subject merged in GitBook

terms/decentralization.md, after:

---
cover: >-
  https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1597733336794-12d05021d510?crop=entropy&cs=tinysrgb&fm=jpg&ixid=MnwxOTcwMjR8MHwxfHNlYXJjaHwyfHxuZXR3b3JrfGVufDB8fHx8MTY1OTkxMjU3Nw&ixlib=rb-1.2.1&q=80
coverY: 0
---

# Decentralization

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/7w_5BQXYJfI" %}

## ABC of Governance - Decentralisation

\- ABC of Governance - Decentralisation - [00:00](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7w\_5BQXYJfI\&t=0s)&#x20;

## Alexis De Tocqueville on Decentralisation

\- Alexis De Tocqueville on Decentralisation - [00:06](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7w\_5BQXYJfI\&t=6s)&#x20;

## Types of Blockchain Networks

\- Types of Blockchain Networks - [00:45](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7w\_5BQXYJfI\&t=45s)&#x20;

## Buterin, "The Meaning of Decentralisation"

\- Vitalik Buterin, "The Meaning of Decentralisation" - [01:03](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7w\_5BQXYJfI\&t=63s)&#x20;

### Architectural decentralisation

\- Architectural decentralisation - [01:13](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7w\_5BQXYJfI\&t=73s)&#x20;

### Political decentralisation

\- Political decentralisation - [01:26](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7w\_5BQXYJfI\&t=86s)&#x20;

### Logical decentralisation

\- Logical decentralisation - [01:36](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7w\_5BQXYJfI\&t=96s)&#x20;

## Decomposition

\- Decomposition - [01:47](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7w\_5BQXYJfI\&t=107s)&#x20;

## Blockchains - 3 Types of decentralisation

\- Blockchains - 3 Types of decentralisation - [01:59](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7w\_5BQXYJfI\&t=119s)&#x20;

## How can decentralisation be measured ?

\- How can decentralisation be measured ? - [02:19](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7w\_5BQXYJfI\&t=139s)&#x20;

## Edinburgh Decentralisation Index

\- Edinburgh Decentralisation Index - [02:21](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7w\_5BQXYJfI\&t=141s)&#x20;

### &#x20;EDI Decentralisation Layers 1 to 4

\- EDI Decentralisation Layers 1 to 4 - [02:37](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7w\_5BQXYJfI\&t=157s)&#x20;

Hardware - diversity in manufacturers of mining equipment and cloud hosting

Software - diversity of software products and development teams

Network - decentralisation on micro level of a specific node’s network access & the macro level of the overall network’s topology

Consensus - categorizes systems based on the mode of participation they allow.

### EDI Decentralisation Layers 5 to 8&#x20;

\- EDI Decentralisation Layers 5 to 8 - [03:11](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7w\_5BQXYJfI\&t=191s)&#x20;

Economics - hazards of initial token distribution, control by few investors & centralisation in few secondary markets.

API - interaction with the blockchain’s API services and the overall efficiency and scalability of a blockchain.

Governance - how peers propose and decide on system improvements and funding allocation

Geography - the geographic & jurisdictional distribution of blockchain systems.

## Decentralisation Pros & Cons

\- Decentralisation Pros & Cons - [03:46](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7w\_5BQXYJfI\&t=226s)&#x20;



## End

\- How can we overcome these challenges and build a decentralised future? - [04:57](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7w\_5BQXYJfI\&t=297s)&#x20;

\- QA-DAO - [05:02](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7w\_5BQXYJfI\&t=302s)
